today we're talking about the future of
multi-level marketing network marketing
and affiliate marketing what is going on
what I would do if I found out today
that my network marketing company was
closing and if I wanted to continue
doing it like how would I pick another
company or should I pick another company
and then lastly I'm going to share my
opinion of what to look out for if
you're in network marketing and you're
worried about the viability of the
company that you're with changing to a
Omni Channel approach
hey my name is shene Johnson welcome to
build your tribe and I'm just going to
tell you upfront that I realize that
there are going to be a whole bunch of
people who take issue with what I say
I'm sure I'm going to get attacked in
the comments and there's going to be a
lot of people who are like just don't
watch this video because they don't want
to hear this and it's hard for me to say
some of these things because I've got
friends who are in the industry I've got
a relationship with network marketing
that I'm going to explain in this
episode but I'm also going to talk to
you about what I think the future of
network marketing holds multi-level
marketing direct selling whatever you
want to call it we're going to address
all of that I know it's going to
be a little bit controversial but again
all of what I'm sharing today is my
opinion but it's it's opinion based on a
lot of
experience and years and years of not
just coaching people in network
marketing and business and marketing but
also being a part of it on the outside
and ins like trust me I've got a unique
perspective and I want to be honest
because I think it's really important
that we look at trends that we be
prepared this doesn't mean it's an
automatic that what I'm going to suggest
is going to happen but it's really
important that we're we're prepared do I
think the future of network marketing is
on decline absolutely I mean anyone who
tells you it's not is in network
marketing and they're trying to
sugarcoat it but it is definitely in
Decline and let's talk about why it's in
Decline number one the ground swell that
has happened around the anti-mlm
movement has gained a lot of traction
because of a lot of reasons but one of
the biggest reasons why is because the
people at the top not all but some of
the people at the top of these network
marketing
companies the CEOs it trickles down from
there and the way that they've trained
their staff and the way that they've
treat not staff their treated their
Distributors and trained their
Distributors has a trickle down effect
and when a
CEO decides to send one email and
decides overnight because you've you
don't own that company I I know you like
you are a business owner right like
maybe you have filed an LLC and that's
what you're operating your network
marketing
business through but you don't own the
network marketing business and so the
person that does they can send one email
and the next day it goes away and when
that happens to hundreds of thousands of
people what that creates is an army of
angry scorn people who are now like yeah
those anti-mlm videos now I want to
watch them because now I've been burned
but why is it so many of these companies
are
switching not just because of pressure
from social media and not even just
because of regulatory pre pressures
although that's part of it but why are
so many of them switching models the
first reason why is consumer habits I
don't know about you but I don't want to
talk to anyone when I buy something I
just want to click a button I don't even
like it when I checking out in person
and they're like would you like to be
part of our Rewards program I'm like no
I don't and they're like you can save
50% I'm like I don't care you know what
I mean so like we just we kind of want
to shop and be left alone that's number
one also now because of social media and
the way so many companies due to
technology have been able to leverage
affiliate marketing we're talking Amazon
ltk shopy the Tik Tock shop the Creator
accounts anyone now including your mom
if she has a social media account she
can get in a link from Amazon and say
hey I just bought this new book and I'm
reading it and I love it and here's a
link and then she earns a small
commission so because of that companies
used to have to reach out to micro
influencers they have to do a lot of
research they would have to court you
and they'd have to send you free stuff
and then they would have to send you
more free stuff than their competitors
so that you would want to be an
influencer for them then you'd have to
negotiate a raid and and then you'd have
to go back and forth and like okay
should I I mean this is still happening
but it's it's cumbersome and companies
don't have to do that anymore now we the
consumer are saying I love this product
give me an affiliate link right you can
become an affiliate for just about
anything and because of that these
companies now have
armies of Affiliates so they don't have
to worry about getting that big hit from
that one person who really knows how to
sell because they know just by the sheer
volume of people who are becoming
Affiliates statistically speaking a lot
of those people are just going to have a
video that pops off and that video that
pops off is going to be the one that's
about the the thing that you've used an
affiliate link for and it's happening
over and over and over again so
companies are like whoa
this is a much leaner model it's more
profitable that's the number two reason
why it is more profitable for a company
to operate as a affiliate or direct to
Consumer versus a network marketing
organization with a network marketing
organization it is it's really expensive
they have so much more overhead they
have to maintain all those individual
websites for every single distributor
they have the cost of having to pay each
one of those people the HR that's
involved having to police their
Distributors and make sure that they're
not doing anything to promote a
competitor's brand the it's a it's a
nightmare how expensive it is not to
mention of course the fact that the
company doesn't just pay the distributor
they a percentage they pay the
distributor the person that the
distributor signs up with and then they
also have to this person and the people
below this person you know how it goes
like they're not just paying one person
it's
multi-level and that requires a lot of
extra work and operation operational
expenses the third reason why is
regulatory scrutiny so a lot of states
are trying to ban or outlaw or
eliminate network marketing they think
that it's confusing to tell people what
they have to do when they do it how to
do it and you're paying them and you're
giving them all these tools
but you're not calling them an employee
you're calling them a consultant and so
a lot of um Regulators a lot of
lawmakers believe that those people are
actually should be cons should be
classified as employees and not as
consultants and so they're trying to ban
the idea of uh network marketing in a
lot of states and that regulatory
scrutiny also is coming down on a lot of
these companies for making false income
claims for making statements about what
it is their products can do uh claims
about the products and then claims about
what people can earn and not being
completely transparent about the true
earnings of its Professionals of the
people who signed up because the deal is
in order to be successful in network
marketing you've got to sell product and
you've got to sign people up to be
Distributors well a lot of times in
network marketing they'll say like hey
you know I know you're just going to buy
that book but did you know if you sign
up to be a distrib
you're going to get 10% off and so a lot
of people will be like sure I'll sign up
I I don't want to be I don't really want
to sell it but like to get the discount
I will and so then that factors in so
now like in defense of people who are in
network marketing you will often hear
such a very very very small percentage
of people actually make money at network
marketing and I I'm sure I'm going to
catch heat for this but a lot of there's
I know lots of people who make a lot of
money in network marketing but they work
it they work it
247 it's it's a lot of you know talking
to people and reaching out on social
media and being a product of the product
and meetings and it's hard work it's
hard work and they' they're doing the
work and there are lots of people who do
it legitimately like the right way and
they're kind and they're caring and
they're honest and then there are those
people who are unscrupulous and they are
predatorial and they are doing things
that are false and misleading and it is
a kind of pressure and bullying and it's
just not not a healthy environment it's
a toxic environment but I just I need to
say as someone who's like you know in
the middle of the road like I have no
dog in this fight I don't care but there
are bad people in the church and there's
good people in the church there's bad
people in medicine there's good people
in medicine there's bad people in
network marketing and there's good
people in network marketing can we all
agree on that probably not but we should
because if we're really being realistic
about that that's the truth however the
majority of people don't make money at
it because the majority of people do
sign up just for the discount and
they're signing up for the discount
because that person talked them into
doing it and they needed to talk them
into doing it because they don't move up
and rank unless they get people signed
up to become Distributors people signed
up to become Distributors because they
get a discount anyways all of that is
complicated and it's hard and companies
are now under this regulatory scrutiny
which means they're getting hit with
fines and that can wipe out a new
company a newer company and it's expense
it's an expense all they have to do is
send one email and say you know what
we're just kidding we're just G we're
just going to be the affiliate model now
and they don't have to deal with that
anymore it's also very easy for
companies to decide all right we're not
going to do this and they immediately
reduce their legal costs and they
immediately reduce their operational
costs with one email it's just so much
easier for them to do and we know like I
said consumer buying practices have
changed and so has the consumer
attitudes towards network marketing
recently CEO of body formerly Beachbody
Carl dyler made an announcement to his
distributors they're known as coaches
that they were going to be changing
their business model to a Omni Channel
approach and in that announcement he
said the people don't even want they're
they're embarrassed I don't think that
was his exact words but like they
they're not even sharing the fact that
they're in network marketing because
they're not comfortable doing doing so
and that's that's a a real shift now you
know your parents and my parents like
network marketing was like a one of the
only ways you can get certain products
you know like we didn't have the
internet you couldn't get Amway products
online you had to like know someone who
get them for you or whatever it was and
so the reputation of network marketing
multi-level marketing
is as many people in the industry are
saying it's becoming outdated do I think
that all network marketing is going to
go away in not too distant future I
don't think all I think that there will
be those companies that sustain I do and
so and now I know this is the part that
I'm going to catch a lot of heat and uh
I'm just going to be I'm just
forecasting that's all I don't want this
I want people to shop whatever way they
want to shop I want people to do
whatever business they want to do as
long as they're not taking advantage of
people but the fact is with all of this
like if you're a business owner and
you're going wow the model has changed
we're making less and less money people
are less and less inclined to do this
people who are in network marketing are
aging out these younger Generations are
not interested at all um gosh all we
have to do is go to affiliate model it's
so much easier it's so much more
convenient it's we're going to be much
more profitable I mean it's just common
sense and you can be mad at me but don't
hate the messenger it's just a trend
it's just a trend and I think anyone
who's not seeing that is doing
themselves a great disservice because if
you are in network marketing to like
plug your ears and go la la la la la la
la I don't want to hear it is means that
you could wake up tomorrow and be
throwing up in your toilet because your
income has gone away or it's going to go
away in 30 days or 90 days or whatever
amount of time that they've given you so
first of all I have some big sister
advice to you don't live outside your
means and by means I mean if that money
were to all go away tomorrow can you
still
survive don't buy the big house and the
big car if you don't have a way to pay
for that if that source of income goes
away plan for it to go away that means
you've got to have additional streams of
income it means you should be investing
your money not spending it to have some
fancy car that you can post on Instagram
because you can't make income claims you
know what I'm saying like be smart with
your money live within your means build
your own thing build your own brand
build your own brand there's nothing
that's more attractive than your own
brand no one can take that away from you
create your email list because when
companies decide to do this in a snap
you're not going to have access to your
customers you may not have that email
list you likely will not that could all
go
away and you have to start over from
scratch so just anticipate today that it
may happen I'm not saying jump ship not
saying you know anounce to all of your
downline oh my god the guy is falling
the guy is falling but like be smart you
know when I was doing Fitness
infomercials I remember thinking to
myself I'm not consuming infomercials
any like I used to be like a major infom
mercial consumer like anything that was
on infomercial I'm like I have to have
it I have to buy it like I would watch
all the infomercials and then I just
remember one day waking up going like I
haven't bought anything on an
infomercial in a really long
time ding ding ding ding ding this
should tell me something this should
tell me like infomercials are going away
then I recall thinking about how when I
first started doing Fitness infom
mercials the only way you could get buy
a fitness program was like if you maybe
rented it from Blockbuster this is like
in the early 2000s right and and or like
you went to Target and you bought a DVD
that's the only way you could get a
workout program and there just weren't
many there was no YouTube dude there was
no YouTube there was no you know
Instagram you open up your Instagram St
and everybody's doing a workout that
there wasn't any of that so there was
Major demand and very very little Supply
and then all of a sudden I notice uhoh
people aren't watching infomercials why
because TV's on demand we stream on
demand so we're not channel surfing
which means infomercials aren't working
number one number two social media
started producing the ability for you
for anyone who had you know A love for
Fitness they could make YouTube video
and Instagram videos and it was so now
there's all this supply of free content
and I just said to myself it's time for
us to sell and that's when we sold our
fitness company and it was long
before everything bottomed out so it's
so important that you as an entrepreneur
forecast Trends don't wait until the
ship has sunk and everyone is trying to
get in the
Lifeboat look ahead pay atten attention
to your own buying practices pay
attention to the industry pay attention
to Trends even when it's uncomfortable
even when you're like oh but I'm making
a lot of money should I really change
directions use your common sense even
when you don't want to look at it just
pay attention to where you should be
placing your efforts should 100% of them
be focused on something that clearly is
changing or should you be allocating a
certain percentage of of your interest
and time on something that could be the
future don't make poor choices invest
your money like open up an eade account
stop keeping your money in savings
account open up I know I'm like all over
the place right now and being like your
big sister but open up an E Trade
account make sure you're in the SNP 500
at at a minimum you know don't put money
in a savings account use something like
wealthfront like how have your money
make you money like people think
investing is so complicated it's really
not like you don't even have to have a
lot you don't have to have very very
little money to start but you have to
start and just keep letting it compound
and compound and and learn as as as much
time as you spend scrolling on Tik Tok
spend even like one quarter of that
learning what you can about basic
investing and you're going to be set so
what would I do if my if I was in a
network marketing organization I found
out today that it was closing everything
was going away what would I do okay so
so I can tell you that I've talked to in
the last week after the closing of body
Beachbody which by the way I was never a
coach for Beachbody but I had programs
fitness programs and diet programs that
were sold in Beachbody as part of their
network marketing organization when we
sold our company powder blue Productions
we sold that to body so I had a lot of
friends and family who were were in that
as coaches Distributors and when they
got this news last week like my phone
still is blowing up to this minute like
people are just devastated because they
didn't have a plan B they didn't have
something in the works and they're
making a lot of money and you you live a
lifestyle and you get real comfortable
when you've been doing it for 15 plus
years and and so many of them have said
what should I do and here here's my
honest answer and I know some of you are
not going to like this but if you have
to pay the bills and you don't have
anything else in the works you don't
have a job you can R to none of those
things then it might makees sense for
you to look for another network
marketing company that maybe is better
aligned for you but just know it's a
soft place to land for a temporary
period of time if especially if you
choose the wrong company I think there
are very few that are going to be around
in the next five years I think we're
going to see more and more closures and
the first and I'm going to explain to
you um if if that's you and you're like
okay I I have to place my team somewhere
I have to go somewhere I need to make
money and this is all I know okay well
then if that's the case and you need to
make a wise decision and stop taking all
the phone calls from people who are
trying to pitch you and they're coming
at you like vultures trust me I
know turn off your phones do your
independent research without all these
people yapping in your ear because they
all have a vested interest in you
getting on their team they want you
you've got a downline okay avoid these
companies because these companies will
be the next ones to
fold any company that is publicly traded
because they've got the pressure of the
board to say uh yeah we kind of want to
be profitable let's switch to an
affiliate model companies that are
primarily funded by Venture Capital
again you know the the investors they
want to see a profit and if they've got
voting options you've and they're
looking at even even some of these
companies that are owned by private
Equity you know the people who are
making decisions they want a return on
their Investments basically any company
where the CEO has to answer to anyone
other than themselves and so if there's
a board if there's private Equity if
there are investors and they want
profits to go up one of the first places
they're going to look is at the
Distributors and just eliminate that as
a business model I think you should also
be very careful about going to any
company that is relatively new like
under three years the likely look at
their earnings and by the way at the end
of this video I'm going to put on the
screen a series of chat GPT prompts so
if you've narrowed it down to like one
or two companies or you're trying to
figure out like independently without
being influenced by someone who's like
you've got to join our team we're the
best everything's amazing over here
they're all going to say that so if you
have chat GPT do some of your research
for you I'm going to give you those
prompts at the end but but any company
that has
overpriced products as we're entering
into you know real hard time
economically for a lot of people they
look at what they're spending on a Baga
protein or some lotions you can put on
your face and they're like can I get
this from these same ingredients or
close to these same ingredients for
someone else for a lot less that that's
Expendable income that people just
aren't going to spend anymore if there's
nothing proprietary about what this
company offers everyone always says what
they offer is proprietary but if Frankly
Speaking you can get something pretty
close to that elsewhere people are going
to do that I would be very careful about
considering any company that lacks the
Staffing and
experience like right now more than ever
with all of the scrutiny with all of the
negative social media directed at mlms
and network marketing and the regulatory
concerns and the expenses and all these
shifts in the buyers uh
behaviors it is so hard to make this
happen so if if a company doesn't have
deep deep Financial backing and the
legal chops like they can handle these
regulatory fines and getting sued by
Distributors and it's not going to put a
dent in them they're they're not going
to fold if their you know somebody from
their team puts together a class action
lawsuit it's not going to be even a bum
in the road for them that's great but
most of these newer companies they just
don't have the same annual incomes and
the depth and the breath and the
experience in terms of their legal
departments to be able to handle the
things that are coming I would avoid any
company where the
CEO is a little sketch or um can't be
trusted and every single person who's
going to pitch to you their opportunity
is going to tell you that they love
their CEO and they're amazing do your
own independent research like figure out
a little bit about their personal life
some people aren't interested in that I
I am like I think the way you treat your
family and your friends and your real
life is a big reflection of how you are
as a leader like if you can't even lead
your own family like to me that that
would be one of my deciding factors I
would look for I would I would want to
know if that skeleton if the that CEO
has skeletons in their closet do they
are they financially independently
wealthy to be able to to make decisions
independent of a board I would look at
the attrition rates of that company I
would look at do they have substantial
pending litigation are they well
established do they have in place the
policies procedures
regulations and sophisticated training
that you and your downline have become
accustomed to or are you starting from
scratch in advance of figuring out what
company you want to go with if you if
that's what you decide to do listen I
have to tell you I haven't talked to too
many people this week who are like I am
so excited to do this again they're
devastated they don't want to do it a
lot of them are they're they're wearing
golden handcuffs I've talked to a few
however who are like and and they're
pretty rare the ones who are like I'm
not doing that again I got myself
invested and I've built my own personal
brand and I don't have to do it but
those who do you need to make a wise
decision because you don't want to fail
immediately again again the devastation
that you're feeling right now and your
team is feeling and it's heavy and I and
I understand and I I sympathize even
though I know a lot of people are
watching or listening to this may not
but you know have a heart for a second
and recognize that even if you think
it's a cult even if you think you know
these people were predatorial whatever
you just have to know what it feels like
when you're on the inside you just it's
hard to see things for what they really
are until you're on the outside you know
what I'm saying and I I've been keeping
my mouth shut for um let's see how long
i' been I guess it hasn't been I haven't
been keeping it that closed but I really
haven't been saying anything negative
because it's been hard but I left I
left and didn't allow any new products
that I had created to be a part of that
organization because I'll leave it at
this it didn't align with my beliefs and
and a lot of people will stay in their
organization well beyond that point
because they have golden handcuffs on
and I never ever want to be in that
situation you don't want to be in that
situation either because it feels like
you're selling your soul right so be
very very slow if you need to make this
decision to go with another MLM make the
decision slowly make a wise decision
don't make a decision because all the
popular people are going over here or
these people are promising you you know
a big payday right front like look for
stability that's that's my big sister
advice you so now some big sister
advice and this is important I would
start by making a list of what are the
things that are important to you if you
the company you've just been terminated
from or that's just changed their
business model if it was a a beauty
company well then it makes the most
sense for you to look for another beauty
company because that's going to be the
easiest transition for you it's going to
be the easiest transition for your
customers if it was a wellness company
then you should probably look for
another wellness company so find
something that's kind of parallel and
then look at the companies that are the
most reputable and then you've got to do
some research and figure out which ones
are if this is important to you the
safest some of you are gung-ho on being
all risky again if that's what you want
to do then go with a new company I
personally in this economy going with a
new company um it might turn out great
for you but it is undeniably a very
risky decision undeniably you can't deny
that you just
can't um so I'm gonna put some prompts
that you could use with chat GPT here's
the main one I I would put this into
perplexity that's my preferred AI tool
perplexity incorporates chat GPT it also
searches social media it it searches
industry Publications it searches
academic published papers it it's really
robust it's phenomenal it's the same
price as chat GPT plus it includes chat
GPT I think it's like 20 bucks a month
so I I would definitely put these into
perplexity that would be my this is what
the advice I've given to my friends and
here's the first prompt I said I would
like to compare network marketing
companies in terms of their risk and
potential for success I will provide for
you a list of specific questions and I
want you to give me detailed factual
insights and a comparison the two
companies I want you to compare for each
one of these questions are blah blah
blah and blah blah blah blah so narrow
it down to two Okay and then when you
take them through these series of
questions one of those companies is
going to be like heads and tails above
the other you're going to see it in
black and white and now you're not
listening to the people who are like we
want you on your team but our leader
blah blah blah and we're going to give
you this and you're going to love it and
blah you know all it's a lot so quiet
that noise and do your own comparison
first before you start having all those
phone calls and and because eventually
AI isn't going to make this decision
eventually it's your intuition your
heart a gut feel your experience prayers
whatever it is you turn turn to but
before you go to Instinct before you say
I'm gonna pray on it research on it okay
research on it first and I want you to
start by saying like Okay based on all
of the available research I want to know
you want to know the details of that
company first the very first thing I
would ask is to ask perplexity chat GPT
fill in the blank company are are they
publicly traded are they familyowned are
they Venture Capital funded are they
equity-owned are they franchise-based
are they structured as a partnership or
LLC what and how is this corporate
entity set up that's the first question
you have to know because that's going to
tell you a lot about who has power and
who doesn't and if a decision could be
made
tomorrow the rest of these questions are
you know they're long and so I'm I'm not
going to read them to you but what we
will do is put them in the description
you're welcome and you can just copy and
paste them the way that I suggest you do
this is put in one question at a time
let perplexity or chat GPT give you the
answer read the answer and see if the
answer makes sense because it's Ai and
AI sometimes you read the answer and
you're like what are they even talking
about like they've got the wrong company
or they they've misunderstood or maybe
you wrote The Prompt the wrong way and
these are just general prompts these are
the same kinds of prompts that my
husband husband and I would use if we
were considering investing in terms of
private Equity with a company so these
are some of the questions that we would
use to do our background research and
I've just revised them for you um
they're they're just a template you need
to customize them in the way that works
best for you based on what factors
you're going to look at when deciding
upon which company is the next best
temporary fix for you and I have to say
temporary because I just honestly
believe only the dinosaurs
are going to survive think about
dinosaurs I'm I live in Miami Beach I'm
looking outside right now at a I don't
know what you call it it's like a giant
lizard with a thing on top of his head
it looks like a freaking mini dinosaur
and that species has been around for
like hundreds of thousands of years like
it has survived for specific reasons and
some things go extinct so I think the
companies that are going to survive are
the ones that have been around the
longest just it's just a PR addtion but
once you've got all these answers CU
you're going to see there's a lot of
questions I've provided for you f the
final question is this I think you say
this to CH and again this is not to make
your decision but it's to help you and I
would ask I would put this prompted I
would say given that I want to make a
decision based on the following factors
and then you want to insert the factors
like I'm looking for I'm just going to
make this up I'm looking for a faith
faith-based leader or I am looking for
what's important to me me is quick
income potential and a company that
could withstand legal scrutiny like I
don't know what all the things are that
are important to you but list them all
and you can list as many as you want
when we're talking about AI list as many
of those things that are important to
you and then say based on that provide a
comparison between company a and Company
B highlighting which one might be the
better Fit For Me based on the available
research because now
it's an
independent artificial machine that's
saying we're smarter than the average
person and we're going to tell you which
one is a better fit because there's no
emotion involved and it's a lot of
emotion so for those of you who are
going through this my heart goes out to
you I know it's a learning lesson you're
going to be better because of it this
chapter is you know over but your book
isn't done like you are a successful
person you can do it again I want you to
believe in yourself I want you to create
your own thing I want you to have your
own email list I want you to build your
own personal brand but I absolutely
understand that at the end of the day
you got to make sure that the
electricity is on and you're taking care
of your team and I commend you because
this is a really hard time get your
sleep get your information turn your
phone off stop taking all the calls
everyone says they want to help you
everyone says that they're there to do
this this this and some of them do but
they all
have a vested interest too so do your
research and have a have a list of the
things that really matter to you and um
then make a viable decision but don't do
it the same way this time again I'm I'm
really sorry that this is happened and
my heart goes out to you I wish you the
best thank you so much for listening or
watching this edition of build your
tribe my goal is to be brief to be
bright to be fun and then be done and
we're done
[Music]